[Transcript missing]
So, Apple product strategy for business.
And as I mentioned,
we've been getting a little bit
more attention lately around our
enterprise use of our products.
This is from Federal Computer Week.
This is,
when you think about Apple computer
and Macintosh systems,
you probably don't think about servers,
but think again.
And this increased attention is partly,
and honestly,
I think due to the fact that
we've transitioned to Intel,
and for whatever reason,
I think there are people who
feel maybe more comfortable
in the IT space with Intel.
But really,
I think what's driving this is
that we have a complete platform
that is tuned for business.
Starting from Mac OS X,
which is of course Unix-based,
fits in very well in the server room.
As well as on the desktop.
On the desktop,
we are really the only environment
that combines the power of Unix,
plus the ability to run
Microsoft productivity applications
on that very same desktop.
A very nice suite of pro applications
for companies that either have it
as their business to manage media,
or as more and more is true,
it's part of your
business to manage media.
And the Apple applications for managing
media are really second to none.
Servers and storage, of course,
since we've introduced
our One-U Server product,
and now as you've seen,
are transitioning that
to a Quad Intel product.
That is going to be, I think,
of increasing interest to
people who are looking for that,
you know, not just a nicely designed,
nice appearing product,
but a product that actually fits
into the server room and gives
you the price performance that
really drives everything there.
Especially when you start
looking at heating issues.
And you saw some of the heating
information earlier today.
We're going to go a little
bit deeper into that.
Service, of course,
Apple provides world class
service for our products.
Sales, pro sales service and support that
really is tuned for businesses
and what businesses need.
And then finally,
none of this works without the software
and the software produced by the
people who attend this conference.
We're at 22,000 titles and growing.
In addition, of course,
we have a great number of other
software products in the world.
We have a lot of software products.
We have a large number
of IT solution partners,
many of whom are represented
here at this conference.
People like Oracle, SAP, TIBCO,
Cisco System.
Some nice point solutions, for example,
Backbone for enterprise
level backup of data.
A lot of partners that were helping
us bring the Mac into the enterprise.
[Transcript missing]
So talk a bit now about
Apple's established markets.
And as we move out into the IT space,
there are some markets where we've been
present all along and actually provide
great examples of how IT challenges have
been met and met with Apple solutions.
And we're going to have
some examples of that today.
Examples of our established markets:
education, design, pro audio and video,
science and technology, government.
Some of these are enterprise
level deployments.
For example,
education has some of the largest
institutional deployments around
that would give any Fortune 500
deployment a run for their money.
And of course,
government tends to be large as well.
I need to say no more.
Design, pro audio and video,
science and technology.
Both examples of smaller
medium-sized businesses,
but also are oftentimes a
portion of a large enterprise.
So in pharma, you have the science and
technology desktops where they do
these days genetic engineering.
Or in many Fortune 500 companies,
you have the IT shops.
First experience with Macs was
in the audio and video in the
creative services in that shop.
And they had to make those fit in.
And so we're going to have some examples
of how we can fit in with the rest
of the corporate IT infrastructure.
So the first one we're going to
talk about is Apple on campus.
And as I mentioned,
the campus IT administrator
has all of the same issues
that any IT administrator has,
plus some.
And they are dealing with the
mission of educating their students,
not just making money.
They have to be on the leading
edge in order to take advantage of
the technology that's out there.
The kinds of products we produce
make creation by the students
and the teachers very simple.
Even things like iLife add to the
ability to create for the students.
Broad distribution,
campuses are highly networked.
They need to get their
content that's created,
whether it's courseware or student work,
broadly distributed on the campus.
So that means XSERVs and XSERV raids.
And then finally, mobility.
And this is an area where education
is a big part of our lives.
Education is a leading indicator.
Education was the first place we saw
that laptop volume was going to surpass,
and it already has by a large margin,
desktop volume.
And this will hit the
rest of our world as well,
and is in the process of
hitting the rest of our world.
But even beyond that,
hypermobility with the iPod.
And you find large numbers of
students and teachers innovating
with how to integrate the MacBook,
the MacBook Pro,
and the iPod for a complete
learning environment.
So here to tell us a little bit about
that is I'd like to introduce Anton C.
Harfman,
who is Associate Dean for Technology and
Facilities at the College of Design,
Architecture, Art,
and Planning at University of Cincinnati.
So welcome.
Thank you, Bud.
Thank you so much, Bud.
I really appreciate the honor.
It's such an honor to present here.
And let me start off by
apologizing for the tie.
The College of Design, Architecture, Art,
and Planning is four schools
with a total of 13 programs.
The College of Design,
the College of Architecture and
Interior Design,
the School of Art,
and the School of Planning.
I'm sorry, those are all schools.
It must be the tie.
This is a quick tour of
our building as well.
As you can see,
there are no right angles.
If you're drunk,
I'm told the building does look straight.
It's the first building on
the University's master plan.
We have 2,400 students in our
college with 110 full-time
faculty and 30 plus staff.
The University of Cincinnati itself
is a Research I institution
with 35,000 students.
It's a very design-rich environment.
We have a really broad collection of
contemporary signature architecture
on campus that makes this a
really incredible environment.
This has all recently been
done in the last 10 years.
The University of Cincinnati has
a history of Apple at our college.
The history begins in 1999 when
we were unable to keep up with the
pace of technology and we couldn't
afford to maintain all the labs,
so we asked our students to bring
their own personal computers,
which they did.
They brought every variety of,
so you can imagine, Gateway, Heathkit,
and so on.
Only four students in our program in
architecture chose to bring an Apple.
Huge monitors sitting on
these drafting tables made it
impossible to build a computer.
It was impossible to build conventional
study models or do large drawings.
And then furthermore, the studio faculty,
of which I was one,
were spending all of our time
solving IT and network issues
and no time teaching design.
Well, I marched right into the
chair's office and said,
"We're either going to drop computers
from the curriculum or we're going
to move to a laptop environment,
and we're going to do it
with one platform only."
It was a hard sell at first,
but as I made the argument,
they seemed to go along.
Architecture, graphic,
and digital design all went that way,
and that was a good chunk of our
student population in the college.
And all first-year students in
those programs came with PowerBooks.
The others in the college
came with other stuff.
The argument was pretty easy to make.
They're minimal IT.
We didn't want to invest
in IT in the school.
We'd rather have another faculty member.
They were very intuitive
and very powerful and
graphically interesting to use.
And moreover, they were well-designed.
If we're a college of design and we're
interested and curious about design,
we ought to be using
well-designed products as well.
Practice what you preach, in other words.
The first wave of this laptop tsunami,
of all of these laptops
arriving on our doorstep,
forced us to change some
things critically right away.
The administrative structure
just wasn't working.
We had these silos with individuals
reporting to other individuals,
and when somebody in
their area wasn't working,
they were picking their nose.
We immediately moved to
a horizontal structure,
made it more team-like,
and fit a little bit better
with the academic model.
Physically, we were able to reduce
our labs one per year.
We moved from six mediocre
labs to three high-end labs.
The third one I didn't show a picture
of because it's the other one.
So these are two of our high-end labs.
The other thing that's interesting
with this many laptops in the
building is any classroom is
by default now a computer lab.
The students all have really
pretty good computers,
and wherever we are,
we can make this a lab.
We teach a lot of classes that way.
In architecture,
it allowed us to get smaller
desks because no longer are
they doing these huge drawings.
They're doing all of their stuff in
Photoshop or Illustrator on their
small laptops and printing out really
huge plots and pinning those up.
So we could get by with smaller desks,
increase enrollment, more revenue.
Yay.
So the curricular changes that we
found necessary to make was to teach
IT fundamentals across the board.
And we teach it across the college
at the freshman level as well.
So in our first year,
all 520 of our freshmen
take the freshman class.
They all sit in this room.
It's quite amusing.
It cuts across all 13 disciplines,
and they learn basic
things for the full year.
They're learning things like
basic fundamental graphic skills,
3D motion, and web applications.
This obviously is not
a first-year project,
but this student was once
a first-year student.
Other curricular changes.
In architecture,
we teach this immersion studio.
We force 18 credits,
totally integrated content.
So the only way to manage all of this
was we forced our students to subscribe
to iCale so that they could tell
what's going on every week or every
day or every hour for that matter.
As you can see,
that second week is pretty intense.
The second wave of the tsunami allowed
us to make some critical changes in the
infrastructure and the virtual space.
In the infrastructure,
we did an evaluation and decided
to support all these laptops.
It would be advantageous to
move to XServe and XServe Raids.
So we chose them because
of the hardware monitoring,
the headless installation and management,
as well as the swappability of the
hard drives and the flexibility
that gave us and the availability.
The XServe X Raids,
we have currently 22 terabytes
of available storage.
We give each of our students
4 gigabytes of storage.
The video students,
it's basically on demand.
Most of them get about 100 or so.
Some of them get about
200 or 200 gigabytes.
They're very powerful
and very easy to set up.
Furthermore,
they're managed by one IT person for
all 1,200 students in the building as
well as all the Macs in the building.
He's sitting right over here.
His name is Pete Akins.
If you have questions for him.
At the IT reception,
he'll be there to answer all
the technical questions since
I have no clue what I'm doing.
This has allowed us also to
develop a portal and management
infrastructure as well.
We use out-of-the-box
solutions like Samba,
OpenLDAP, Kerberos, and so on.
And most importantly,
we use an alter Apache, MySQL,
and PHP which come
native on the machines.
And we use those basically
to develop our own intranet.
We are not really totally satisfied with
the university's purchase of the web
portal for the student body at large,
so we've been developing our own
home folder and web management
and course management system.
We call this DAP space.
DAP is the acronym for Design,
Architecture, Art, and Planning.
We have our own discussion and
bulletin board and wiki-based web
content management and a whole
bunch of other features to integrate
other databases like facility asset
enrollment management as well.
And we custom develop these things
as we go and as we need a new tool.
Culturally, as you can imagine,
this has had a huge
impact on our college.
Seventy percent of our
students come with iPods.
100% of them, though, have laptops,
so they're all podcasting,
so it's just a question of mobility.
But they all have laptops and
they're all downloading podcasts
of lectures and music and so on.
Wireless, sort of.
I say that because there's
a slew of people on the side
here who are all plugged in.
We have the same plague.
Even though we can download
anywhere in the building,
you can't recharge
anywhere in the building.
While we're speaking,
the electricians are adding about
100 outlets to the public spaces of
our building so that the students
with their laptops can recharge.
And I'd like to end with
this last two slides here.
If you draw your eye to the right side,
upper right-hand corner,
you'll see one of our newest students.
His name's Ethan,
and he is a sculptor that
resides as the concierge in
that great hall in our building.
And the interesting story
here is that the dean,
when he entered the building after
the weekend that it was installed,
really thought it was real
and yelled at him and said,
Young man, you come down right now.
And went and called security.
security.
Until someone told him he's not real.
Even with a faux plug,
the students tried to plug into the
false plug there for quite some time,
which is why we're
adding these other ones.
So thank you very much.
Thanks a lot.
This next customer is going
to be very interesting.
This is actually all of it says
Apple in the studio and it is Apple in
a studio production environment,
but it's actually a story about
availability and scalability.
And of course most CIOs understand
that when you're near the end of the
quarter and you have to close the book,
uptime becomes super important.
And if you're down,
you hear from the CFO, the CEO.
But nothing compares with a
production studio environment where
you're deadline based and that's
what we're going to hear about.
24/7 availability is an absolute
necessity as well as scalability
so that you can have appropriate
fault tolerance and appropriate
performance to meet the needs.
So of course Apple is well entrenched
in the studio market with production.
We have products like
Final Cut Studio and Logic Pro for
sound and rock solid SAN servers
and XServe and XServe RAID for
meeting the needs of that market.
I'd like to introduce JJ Franzen
who is CIO and technology
supervisor at South Park Studios.
So JJ.
Thank you, Bud.
As Bud said,
I'm the technology supervisor
for South Park Studios.
Some of you are probably asking,
what does that mean?
That means I have the
coolest job on the planet.
I get to play with all the toys.
The render farm, the file servers,
the workstations,
even Matt and Trey's Xboxes.
I touch it all.
I get to play with everything.
Another cool aspect of my job is I get
to know how everyone else does their job.
I get to look over the shoulders of the
artists while they sketch new characters,
while they animate the other characters,
while they record audio
on the audio booths.
I get to be part of every single
thing and see how the episodes evolve
over the course of a production.
I'm also the guy who writes all those
little pieces of glue that production
requires to make things flow smoothly,
to get data from one part to the next,
and so on.
But if I've done my job properly
while we're in actual production,
I'm the digital equivalent
of the Maytag repairman.
I sit there and do nothing,
waiting for something to break.
Hopefully nothing ever does.
So, let's go over the production process
of making a South Park episode.
South Park began as a cardboard cutout,
stop motion animated short that then
was decided to make a TV series out of.
But the pilot for that TV series took
over two and a half months to develop.
Obviously they couldn't do 13
episodes a year at that scale,
so they had to use computers.
So we developed over the course
of nine years now a production
process that is very streamlined,
very organized, and very, very fast.
First stage, the script.
Most animated series,
or most TV series in general,
start with a full script
before they do anything.
We get a few pages.
We get those few pages
Thursday before the Wednesday it airs.
And we get a few more
pages every day after that,
so we literally don't know what's
going to happen from day to day.
Not until Tuesday around 9 or 10 when
we get the final pages of script.
After we get that script,
we begin the storyboard process.
And that's where we take those texts and
we actually convert them into images.
We'll do a comic book version of the
episode to see how things looked,
how things are staged.
This is also where we
design our characters,
our backgrounds, and color design.
While that's going on,
Matt and Trey will go into
the audio booth and record
all the dialogue for the show.
They even do the females
because you never know if
the audio is going to change,
so we don't bring our females
in until the very last minute.
Once those two stages are done,
we begin the animatic stage.
And that's where we take the
audio and those individual frames
of the storyboard and time out
the still frames to the audio.
This gives the mat and tray a chance
to see how things are flowing.
It also gives us a chance to see how
long each shot needs to be for animation.
While the animatic stage is going on,
we have the setup stage.
That's where we take those character
designs and background designs
and locations and model them.
We get them rigged, get them going,
getting prepared for animation.
After that's done, we go to lip sync.
Lip sync is the thankless job.
This is the one job where they sit there,
listen to the audio,
and animate just the mouths.
That's all they do.
It's a thankless task,
but we're very dedicated to it.
After all of that is done,
we can finally get to animation,
where a shot spends most of its time.
This is where they'll do everything else.
The bobbing heads, the blinking eyes,
the dancing, the talking,
everything else is done there.
And this basically is the primary
part of the iterative process where
we'll do a first pass at a shot,
send it through the pipeline,
Trey will look at it if he likes it,
great,
if he doesn't he goes back through.
Our render queue has evolved over
the years to the point that it's a
completely automated process now.
The artist clicks a button,
and from then on out,
the editor gets a signal saying
it's ready to be brought in.
No one has to touch anything.
It's a very smooth system.
We're using Cube, XN, NFS.
It's all very slick.
We're using, in fact,
Shake to convert every single individual
frame into a QuickTime movie for import.
So for those of you who like
Shake can say that Shake is used
on every shot in South Park.
After that,
it goes to the editing bay where
Trey will actually sit down and
edit every part of every show.
He's very directly involved
in the entire process.
The retake process, as I mentioned,
we go through.
It's a very iterative process.
If Trey likes something, he's great.
If he doesn't, he'll make notes.
There have been times where a shot
will come through that completely
changes where he's going with the show.
Just because of one little
extra thing an animator did,
it completely inspires
him in another direction.
After we finish all of that,
we get video locked,
which means no more animation is done.
That's usually around 7:00 or 8:00 AM,
Wednesday, the day it airs.
After we get video lock,
audio still has another
couple hours synchronizing
audio to the final animation.
Once all that's done,
we then roll off the videotape,
take it for color correction,
and then upload it from Comedy Central's
Los Angeles office to the
New York office where they broadcast it.
That usually happens about an hour,
hour and a half before
it goes on the air.
Now, on very rare occasion,
if everyone's really kicking
butt and we're all doing great,
there's tenth stage we reach.
Okay, so this is how we do it.
This is what we use.
We use all the standard protocols.
We have servers dedicated
for every individual job.
We have a server dedicated just
to serving data to the artists.
Another one just serving
data to the render farm.
Another one is just dedicated to
converting those frames to QuickTimes.
We have another one
dedicated just doing backup.
You can see all the tools we use.
And from the entire staff
and crew of South Park,
I'd like to thank all you developers
for making those tools and
enabling us to make the show we do.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot.
Okay,
finally we have Apple in the laboratory,
Apple in science.
And this is a great example of a
challenge which is to build a very
highly collaborative environment
and to leverage open source.
In the sciences, Mac has actually taken
off in the last few years.
Part of that is due to the interest in
visualization and of course the great job
we do at providing visualization tools.
And the Cinema HD display
has helped a lot there.
As well as groundbreaking
applications from third parties,
but also open source.
Especially in the bioinformatics
field where most of the applications
that are used in that field were
written in the era of open source.
That means in the 1990s or later.
And so what this has led to is a
great amount of sharing in that
community between researchers,
both commercial researchers as well
as researchers at institutions.
StructureBiologyGrid.org,
I think associated with
the Harvard Medical School,
but actually a distributed
collaborative environment is
going to be talked about by Dr.
David Goharra from
Washington University School of
Medicine Center for
Computational Biology.
So, David.
Thank you, Bud.
It's really a great pleasure to be
here today and for the opportunity
to be able to share with you some
of the work that we've been doing
and some of the ways that we've
integrated Apple technology in the lab.
But before I do that,
I'd like to give you a little bit
of background about SB Grid and
some of the things that we do.
SBGrid started in the
lab of Steve Harrison at
Harvard Medical School out of a
need to unify and standardize the
software and computing environments
that his lab members were using,
with a specific focus on
x-ray crystallography,
electron microscopy, and NMR.
My primary responsibility as part
of SBGrid is to identify performance
bottlenecks in our users' calculations
and then to develop solutions to help
them get those calculations done faster.
Since its inception,
SBGrid has expanded to 14 other
institutions across the country,
and we now have over 50 labs and
support over 500 users with software.
Almost all of the applications we
use are open source software and
can be run from the command line.
And so any system we use has
to provide a UNIX environment.
And because we're dealing
with open source applications,
we need developer tools
and performance tools.
We need everything that's
required for porting,
building,
and optimizing open source applications.
As structural biologists,
molecular visualization is very,
very important to us.
We want to be able to relate
structure to function,
and so we need to see what's going
on with large molecular assemblies.
And so having access to
high definition displays,
fast graphics cards,
and stereo graphics hardware
is not only important for us,
it's an absolute requirement.
We typically tend to turn
over or upgrade our hardware
faster than we decommission it.
And so anytime we bring new
system types into the mix,
they have to be able to work well
in a mixed computing environment.
So interoperability is really key.
But probably the most important thing
for us is the fact that the types
of problems that we deal with are
extremely computationally expensive.
I'm going to give you an
example of that in a little bit.
What's really key to us is the fact that
we need systems that are priced well,
that are fast, and that are reliable.
And so what we really strive to do is
we want to minimize the bottlenecks that
are introduced by the calculation itself,
and have the science and the
understanding of that science
be the rate-limiting step
in everything that we do.
And so having systems that
ship with multiple CPUs,
vector units,
and highly tuned vector numeric
libraries that we can use out of the
box are very important features for us.
Our first entry into high-performance
computing solutions from Apple was
a 14-node XSERV G5 cluster.
And that system was commissioned
primarily for some of the EM work that
was being done in the Harvard labs.
On the desktop, we're using primarily
Power Mac G5s and iMac G5s.
We've seen some of the
Intel Macs coming in as well.
And in terms of our
graphics workstations,
we're still using the Power Mac G5s,
now with dual LCD displays.
And in the case of stereo graphics,
we'll attach CRT monitors to those.
So let me give you just one quick example
of how we've used the technologies that
ship with these systems to be able to
speed up some of our users' calculations.
We had a user that was performing
a calculation that would take
about 10 days per iteration.
And at the end of that,
he'd sit in front of the
graphics workstation,
move some things around,
analyze the results, of course.
That's what we were
referred to as analyzing it.
And then he'd resubmit
it for calculation again.
And so what this really meant was
that he was spending about three
days out of the month on this
actual portion of the project,
and the rest of the time he
was simply waiting for results.
And so the performance tools that
are provided with Xcode Shark told
us immediately that we're spending,
with this particular application,
we're spending about 30% of our time
allocating and deallocating memory.
And that this memory allocation turned
out to just simply be for scratch space.
And so we could move that allocation to
the beginning of the program's execution,
and we could immediately get the
runtime down to about seven days.
Continuing on,
we could see that the program
was doing a lot of two things.
It was moving data around,
it was transposing it,
three-dimensional data set,
and it was calculating a lot of FFTs.
And if you're on a Mac and you want
to do either one of those two things,
the first place you really want to
look is the Accelerate framework.
Some of the fastest FFTs available
anywhere are in Accelerate.
And so after integrating Accelerate,
we were able to get the
runtime down to about 5.6 days.
And so then continuing on,
what we could see was that the
application was doing a lot of similar
operations on these large chunks of data,
and that the operations that
were occurring over here could
be done independent of the
operations that were over here.
And so then after
multi-threading the application,
we could get the runtime
down to about 3.7 days.
And so at this point, I say, "Okay, hey,
that's not bad.
Take it back to the user and to the
user's boss." And the user's boss
happened to actually be my boss.
And the user's boss, who was my boss,
was happy, and so the user was happy,
and so I was happy.
Great.
And so normally we just sort of leave
it there and move on to something else,
but we didn't.
In fact,
the story gets a little bit better
because what I realized is that in
thinking about the problem a bit more,
the particular calculation that
this user was doing was inherently
a parallel calculation that was
masquerading itself as a serial one.
And so we backed off on
the multi-threading code,
and instead I wrote a Cocoa app that
would break the job up into chunks,
send it off to XGrid,
and then XGrid could farm it out.
And so what we ended up with
is a calculation that was
taking 5.6 days on one CPU and
originally 10 days on one CPU.
We could farm it out to 26 CPUs and
get the calculation down to 0.2 days,
or roughly about five hours.
And so what this meant was that
the user could start the job
in the evening before he left,
and when he got back in in the morning,
the results were now waiting for him.
So it was a complete opposite.
And this is just one example of how
we've been able to take advantage
of some of the technologies that
ship with Apple hardware and
software to really get some great
performance out of our applications.
And so when people come up and ask me,
you know, "Well, why OS X and why Apple?"
I usually respond with,
"Well,
why not Apple?" Almost everything we need
comes in the package with the system,
ready to go out of the box.
And if we add up all the features that we
use and factor in price and performance,
reliability, interoperability, Unix,
it simply makes sense for us.
And given the announcement
that was made this morning,
it makes more sense,
given the hardware that's now
going to become available to us.
And so this is why we use Apple.
This is why we continue to use Apple.
And that's it.
Thank you very much.
Great.
Thanks.
Thanks a lot.
Before we get into our next session,
I just want to say thank
you to these customers.
And really, customers like these are
worth their weight in gold.
Because what they do is they push
us on issues of price performance,
scalability, availability, manageability,
and really help us to focus on
innovative ways to solve those problems.
And also give examples to the rest
of the industry as to innovative
ways to solve those problems.
And again,
thank you for coming to speak here.
Next, we're going to talk about XSERV as
well as OS X Server Leopard.
For XSERV, the hardware,
we're going to ask Michael Culbert,
who's Distinguished Engineer, Scientist,
Technologist in
Apple Hardware Engineering.
Michael,
you're going to talk about XSERV.
Thanks a lot.
Let you take it over.
Thank you.
Hello.
So we're done.
It's been quite a year.
XServe is the last product that we'll
be shipping as part of the transition,
but it's also the
fastest and the coolest,
and was one of the most fun.
It has two dual-core
Intel Xeon processors in it,
64-bit throughout,
and of course supports tremendous
amount of performance and memory.
We're going to go through that.
The dual-core Intel Xeon that's
been codenamed Woodcrest is the
new Core 2 microarchitecture.
It's full 64 bits throughout,
1.33 GHz front side bus,
this thing screams.
Four megabytes of shared L2,
which is really, really important for
these high performance,
particularly in the science
and video industries where a
lot of rendering and a lot of
manipulation of data needs to happen.
It's also got the first full 128-bit
vector engine that Intel has done.
It's optimized for power efficiency,
as you'll see in a little bit,
and it's built using their most
advanced 65 nanometer process.
Now, it's over five times
faster than the XSERV G5.
5.4 times on integer specint
rate and about 3.7 times on
floating point specFP rate.
has superior power efficiency,
3.88 times more compute per watt
than the Intel Xeon that it replaces.
And as you notice,
the PowerPC G5 was actually not
much better than that original
Intel Xeon in this metric.
So it's a tremendous improvement
in density that you can achieve
in a data center or in compute
in the same physical volume.
It's a very high bandwidth
server architecture.
We focused a lot of time and
effort making sure this thing can
really behave well as a server
as well as a compute engine.
So we have 21.3 gigabytes a
second of processor bandwidth
to those two processors.
We have a 256-bit wide,
667 megahertz memory system.
Again, very, very well balanced,
21 gigabytes a second of
main memory bandwidth.
Dual 8x PCI Express expansion slots.
That's two gigabytes a second per slot.
So you can get quite a bit of file
system bandwidth if you're using
this directly with an XServe RAID as
part of an XAN or anything like that.
Very, very high I/O bandwidth.
And of course the built-in drives.
We now support SATA and SAS drives.
So you can actually get tremendous
performance with the drives built in.
As you can see, scientific benchmarks,
LINPACK is used.
To demonstrate the
overall system throughput.
So you have tremendous memory system,
processor, and disk performance
that lead up to a very,
very good LINPACK result.
Almost three times faster in
double precision and 3.2 times
faster in single precision.
Super fast memory back set up,
fully buffered DIMMs, 2x the capacity,
32GB in a single 1U system,
increased high availability features
to keep these things up and running,
ECC with on-demand scrubbing,
CRC protection of the data,
so the transactions between the
memory DIMMs and the systems
are protected with CRCs,
giving the system the ability
to recover from transient errors
rather than coming to a halt.
There's massive memory
bandwidth in this machine,
2.1 times more than
the original XServe G5.
And that is what helps reflect
the benchmarks you saw earlier.
Tremendously flexible storage.
The SATA, of course, is no small feat.
2.25 terabytes of internal hot-plug
storage in this 1U machine.
24x7 server rated drives,
very very important.
And of course, if you want really
really high performance,
with the SAS drives you
get 125 MB/s per drive,
3.5 ms of seek.
These are ideal for large
database applications,
anything that really has very
very I/O intense operation.
As you can see,
this is just comparing SATA and
SAS in the same machine.
Both of them are quite fast,
but the SAS is really unbelievable.
125 megabytes a second.
Remember, you have three of those drives,
so you actually have three times
that bandwidth if you stripe them.
And the seek time means that
for large data sets with random
access behavior like a database,
you have tremendously high
performance right in the box.
And then of course the I/O.
We have two, as I said,
two by eight PCI Express card slots.
One is a standard slot
for 6.8 inch cards,
so fiber channel cards and the like.
And one is actually a full 9
inch slot which allows you to
put fairly large graphics cards
and other things in that slot.
There's 50 watts of total
power available for the slots.
And the long slot can
actually support PCI X cards,
which gives you the ability
to use cards that haven't yet
transitioned to PCI Express in
the same server form factor.
So, there were a lot of customer
requested features which you guys
have been waiting for for a while.
We have dual core processors,
we have redundant power supplies,
we have remote lights out management,
which I'll demonstrate in a minute,
and built-in graphics.
The built-in graphics does not
occupy one of those two slots,
so you get the graphics
and the two slots.
So, take the cover off this thing.
There's some other very,
very subtle but important
improvements as well.
This machine has a tremendous amount
of thought put into the thermal design.
It's actually quite a bit
quieter than its predecessor and,
very importantly,
has a very direct clean airflow
path through the machine.
So, even in a non-ideal machine room,
which a lot of these find their way into,
it can tolerate pretty adverse
environments with ease.
Of course, we have the dual
redundant power supplies.
The dual Intel processors
are in the center.
As you can see,
the airflow is straight through
the three drives in the front.
32 gigabytes of RAM on the side there.
Not in front of the processor,
which a lot of other servers do.
This is again making the thermal
environment substantially better.
The two PCI Express slots,
dual onboard gigabit Ethernet ports,
the built-in graphics, mini DVI,
and we didn't take anything off either.
FireWire 800, USB 2,
the DB9 serial are all still there.
Of course, this is really,
really important.
Redundant power supplies, hot swappable,
fully load sharing, you only need one of
them to run the machine.
Again, the ECC, on-demand scrubbing,
embedded diagnostics,
and integrated software RAID.
So the lights-out management.
It's based on the IPMI 2.0 protocol.
We can remotely power on/off
and restart the server.
It's Ethernet access with encryption,
and the server monitor application,
which you're already familiar with,
will control this.
So I'm going to demo it here.
We have this rack over on
the side that's basically,
this laptop of course is
connected to the projector,
it's got wires hanging off of it,
but running the server monitor app,
you can see one of the machines here,
this little pip is reflecting
that it's on the net,
but it's off.
See, it's half full.
So we're going to go ahead
and power that machine on.
And while we're at it,
we're going to take the top one here,
and if you watch the rack there,
you'll see the lights come on.
We're going to take the top one here,
which is running,
and we're going to just go
ahead and shut that one down.
So you'll see, I don't know if probably
most of you can't see it,
but we did put them in
the top of the rack.
You can see the lights on.
One of them go on and the other
one went off as it shut down.
So, that's the demo.
And it actually worked!
So anyway, and of course,
it's really the software that
makes this an amazing machine.
We've built this incredibly
fast piece of hardware,
but guess what?
It has all of
Mac OS X Tiger Server in the box,
which makes it an
incredible server story.
and to come tell us a lot
more about what's new in
Mac OS X Server for Leopard,
Greg Burns,
our Senior Director of Server and
Software Storage Solutions.
Thanks, Michael.
So we've got three new updates
today actually in server software.
And the first one is
Tiger Server Universal.
This is an update to the
existing Tiger Server that
we shipped today on PowerPC.
And as the name says, it's universal.
It runs on the new Intel boxes.
It runs on the Mac Pro and the XServe
as well as the other Intel Macs.
And it's actually the first version
of the Mac OS X operating system
that's universal in a sense.
And it runs on a single image.
What does that mean?
That means that a single image on
disk will boot Mac OS X server and
run it on both Intel and PowerPC.
If you have a lot of servers
and you need to image them,
it makes your job vastly simpler.
Of course,
it gives you access to the power
and the performance of the new
Mac Pro and the XServe and the 64-bit
address space of the Xeon processor.
And we've made a few
enhancements in the OS.
We've improved some of the locking
and data structure allocation in the
kernel to allow it to scale better
as a server on the new hardware.
So that's Tiger Server Universal.
Mac OS X servers completed
the transition to Intel,
and that's available now.
Second product is XAN 1.4.
This is our storage
area networking product.
And if you're doing a video workflow,
if you're consolidating
storage behind your servers,
it's the fastest,
it's the highest performance
way to connect all your Macs
into a single storage pool.
It scales up to two petabytes
and it provides uptime through
redundant metadata controllers.
So XAN does all this today.
So what's new?
Well,
I'm sure you've guessed it's universal.
So it runs on the new
Mac Pro hardware and AXSERVs and
you can mix and match Intel and
PowerPC systems on the same SAN.
And we have one more feature
that's new in XAN 1.4 and that's
Access Control List support.
Up till now, XAN has been limited by
Unix access privileges,
and that's fairly difficult to map into
your workflows in your shared workgroups,
especially in video workgroups.
And so we've removed that limitation,
and it's now fully compatible
with Tiger Access Control List.
So you can map it to your workflow
and not have to map your workflow
into your access privileges.
So XAN 1.4 has also made
the transition to Intel.
So our biggest release today that
we're working on now is Leopard Server.
This is going to be shipping
in the spring of 2007,
and we have a lot of new features coming.
So here's just a few.
The first is the iCal Server.
This is a complete calendaring server.
And it's got everything that you'd expect
from a full-fledged calendaring server.
So,
users can schedule events and meetings,
you can send invitations, receive them,
you can search free busy time, proxies,
access control,
all the features you'd expect.
And the most important feature is
that it's built on an open standard,
CalDAV.
So it not only works with
the iCal client in Leopard,
but it also works with other clients such
as Mozilla's Sunbird or OSAF's Chandler.
We've designed it from the
ground up to be scalable.
So you can start simple with
one server and then grow as you
need to with multiple servers
all sharing the same calendaring
database on the back end with XAN.
And because we want to
promote the adoption of this
server as well as CalDAV,
we're actually releasing
the complete open source,
the complete source to the server as open
source as the Darwin Calendar Server and
that will be available this
week under the Apache license.
So another new service
in Leopard is Teams.
Teams is a wiki and a set of web
services that easily allows groups
or project teams to create and share
information using Leopard's server.
We use wikis a lot inside of
Apple and they're really powerful,
but sometimes the usage model can
be really arcane and some of the
markup language is hard to use.
We've solved all that in Teams.
Teams uses Ajax.
It's all truly what you
see is what you get.
It's direct editing.
If you can use a word processor,
you can use Teams.
And so Teams is new.
It's a wiki service in Leopard's server.
And it's more than just that.
It also has a lot of
other services as well.
So there's shared group calendars.
You can publish information
through blogs and podcasts.
So it's truly a rich set of services
for Teams to create and share content
using Leopard's server through the web.
Now both Teams and iCal
Server actually use open directory.
They're actually integrated there.
So all of the information they need,
such as groups and shared contacts,
resources, rooms, locations,
other things like that,
are all now stored in open directory.
And so we've introduced another
application as well called the
Teams directory that actually lets
normal users who need to work with
these entries create and manage these.
So you can create
project teams or groups.
You can manage their membership,
rooms and locations,
resources that are used by iCal.
All of these can be created
using Teams directory.
Another new feature in Leopard
Server is streamlined setup.
Tiger Server was already
very easy to set up,
and we've made it even simpler.
So it's very quick to get
the server up and running.
But also, it's not just the server,
it's also the clients as well.
We've automated the client setup,
so all your applications in the
client that work with the server,
such as mail, chat, calendaring,
time machine, etc., can all be easily
configured to work with the
server in just a few clicks.
So if you need to set up a server
with a collection of clients,
it's very easy, very quick,
and there's truly no day-to-day
management that goes into it.
And in addition, as part of our server
management enhancements,
we've also integrated backup.
So now the server uses time
machine to backup your server
settings and data as well.
Spotlight Server allows you to easily
search for content both locally
and now on your server as well.
So in Leopard,
when you do a Spotlight search,
it will transparently search for all the
content on your mounted server volumes.
There's no configuration required
and it'll support all the features,
the new features of Spotlight
such as advanced search queries.
On the server,
everything happens automatically.
You don't need to configure it.
The indexing happens automatically
for all your content.
It's done in the background at a lower
priority so it doesn't interfere with
the performance of your services.
And of course, as you would expect,
it adheres to the file access
privileges so people only see
the results for the files that
they're actually allowed to access.
We have another new service
called Podcast Producer.
Podcast Producer is an end-to-end
solution for capturing,
encoding, and publishing content
on the web as a podcast.
It's great for people who quickly and
easily need to be able to capture audio
or video feeds and publish them out.
You can set up an automatic workflow
so that you can capture video or
audio content on a Leopard client.
It's automatically uploaded to the server
where it can be encoded in any number
of formats that QuickTime supports.
And then it's published out to
the web as a podcast via RSS.
It's integrated with Open Directory to
control who can publish
content through your services.
And all the encoding is
hosted on top of XGrid.
So you can start with a single server,
but then you can grow as
your encoding needs grow.
So it's a great end-to-end solution
for rapidly capturing content
and getting it out to the web.
So the iCal Server, Teams Wiki,
Spotlight Server, Podcast Producer,
these are a few of the major
new services in Leopard Server.
There's a whole bunch more.
We have clustering in the mail services.
We have a federation of instant
messaging servers with iChat Server 2.
We have the ability to host
distributed computing without a
dedicated controller in XSquare 2.
As well as in the CoreOS foundations,
we have the ability to
perform 64-bit computing now
at all layers of the system.
So there's a lot of stuff that's new.
We don't have time to go
into all of it right now,
but the good news is there's
another session right after this,
the Mac OS X Server overview session.
We're going to spend that whole
session going more into Leopard Server,
so I hope I'll see you there.
Thank you.
Thanks Greg.
So, to summarize,
things we're focused on for business:
standards-based,
that's been true all along,
interoperable, especially with Windows,
best price performance, open source,
and of course security.
Now, at this WWDC we actually have a
lot of things going on that are of
interest to the IT professional.
We have sessions,
or actually labs downstairs,
right across from the IT lab.
Apple in the Lab,
which is scientific computing,
Apple in the Studio, Apple on the Campus.
You should especially go take
a look at Apple in the Lab.
One of the things we have there is
a smaller version of the IT lab.
If you heard about the
Hyper Wall at UC Irvine,
we've got a smaller version of that,
which is a huge number of pixels
done with a mosaic of displays.
We also have community
areas in digital media,
system administration,
and scientific computing,
and as I mentioned,
the IT lab across from the
Apple Lab Studio and Campus.